Interviewer (T): Tatiana
Interviewee (S): Sandra
T: Hi, thank you for your time. I’m doing a research study about how people in Bogotá manage the clothes they no longer use, to better understand the problems and possible solutions. The interview will last about 20 minutes. Is it okay if I record this conversation for academic purposes only?
S: Yes, of course, no problem.
T: To start, can you tell me a little bit about yourself and your daily routine?
S: Sure. My name is Sandra, I live in Chapinero, I work in an office from 8 to 6, and I usually have very little free time. During the week I don’t organize much at home, and on weekends I try to tidy up, do laundry, and make space in my closet.
T: Do you remember the last time you organized your closet? What happened with the clothes you didn’t want anymore?
S: Yes, it was about two months ago. I had several t-shirts and jeans that I no longer wore, some of them still in good condition. I put them in a bag planning to donate them, but honestly, the bag is still in a corner because I don’t know where to take it.
T: What do you usually do when you want to get rid of clothes?
S: Well, it depends. When the clothes are still decent, I give them to my sister or a cousin. If they are very worn out, I throw them away with the trash. I feel bad about it, but it’s easier than looking for a place to donate.
T: Have you ever donated clothes to a charity or collection center?
S: Once I took several bags to a church that was running a campaign in December, but that was only because I heard about it from a friend. It’s not something I do often because I don’t know where they accept clothes the rest of the year.
T: How do you feel when you throw clothes in the trash?
S: Honestly, guilty. I know someone could still use them, but at the same time I feel relief because I free up space. It’s contradictory: I want to help, but the lack of information leads me to throw them away.
T: And what motivates you when you decide to give clothes to family or donate?
S: I like to think that someone else will give them a second use. It feels like I’m not wasting. But if I don’t know exactly where to donate, I end up procrastinating or throwing them away.
T: What is the hardest part about trying to donate clothes in Bogotá?
S: I would say accessibility. I don’t know of donation points near my home. I searched on the internet, but the information wasn’t clear. There’s also the issue of trust—you don’t know if the clothes really reach people in need or if they are sold.
T: Have you ever stopped donating because of those reasons?
S: Yes, several times. I prefer not to complicate things and either keep the clothes or throw them away.
T: Imagine there was a mobile app that connects you directly with charities or donation centers. What features would you like it to have?
S: Oh, that would be great. First, a map showing the nearest and updated locations. Second, an option to request home pick-up, because carrying big bags on public transportation is very difficult. And third, a receipt or confirmation message from the charity to prove they received the clothes. That would give me a lot of confidence.
T: And if the app rewarded you with points or badges for every donation, would you use it?
S: Yes, of course. Not so much for the points, but as an extra motivation and because I could share it with friends. It would give more visibility to the cause.
T: If you could change just one thing about how clothes are reused in Bogotá, what would it be?
S: I’d like it to be more organized and easy. I imagine that just like there are containers for recycling, there should be special containers in shopping malls or residential complexes for clothes. That would make donating natural and not so complicated.
T: Perfect. Thank you very much for sharing your experience. Is there anything else you’d like to add that we didn’t ask about?
S: Just that I think there are many people who want to help, but the city doesn’t provide easy tools. If something well-designed was created, I think it would have a big impact.
