J: Hello, good evening. Thank you for taking the time to talk to me. We are currently doing a little research on the experience of students at the time of moving to the campus. The idea of this interview is to know your experience and how it has been your daily life here at this semester at the university to understand what difficulties there are and what improvements we can make. However, before starting, I would like to record this interview so as not to lose any detail. Do you agree with this?

N: Yes, I agree. Thank you.

J: Okay, perfect. So, first I would like you to tell me a little about yourself.

N: Hello, my name is Nicolás Duque and I am here in my first semester at the university.

J: How long have you been at the campus?

N: It is my first semester and we have been here for approximately two weeks.

J: Do you remember your first weeks here? How easy or difficult was it to orientate you?

N: These first two weeks have been a little hard because I just had a transition between college and university. And it's something new for me, so it's a little difficult to orient myself yet. I'm not used to it at all and I don't know the whole campus yet.

J: Okay, and what places have been more difficult for you to find?

N: I was looking for a quiet place to sit down, eat or just study. I couldn't find it at first, but little by little I found it, but it wasn't easy. It was a little complicated to find a quiet place for me to sit down and study or eat.

J: Okay, and in these cases, when you don't know where a place is or you have problems, how do you find it?

N: The route I use or the way I use to find places is through the map that the university gives us. However, sometimes I don't know how to get to the place because it tells me where it is, but not the route. So it's a little complicated.

J: Okay, I understand. And have you ever arrived late or missed a class because you couldn't find the building where the class is located?

N: Yes, on my first day I managed to get to my first class early, on time. But for the second class, I didn't know where that class was. So I started asking people and I managed to get there, but I arrived late. No, I will never forget that.

J: Okay, how do you discover new places to eat, drink coffee or study on campus?

N: What I like to do is just walk around the university without direction. And so I discover new places where I can spend my free time, but what I do is walk without direction. That's my way of discovering new places.

J: Okay, and since you usually walk a lot around the university, do you feel that you already know most of the good places there are? Or do you think there are still places that you haven't explored?

N: Well, I still go to the university for a long time and I feel that there may be better places to find. I still don't feel that I have found the best place and I feel that there are many more places to discover. However, I would like to know them and, as I told you, I still don't feel that I have discovered everything.

J: Okay, what difficulties do you face when looking for a building or a specific place on campus?

N: Something that shocks me a lot is that, I didn't know, but to get to certain buildings you have to go through other buildings. So it's a bit complicated that no one tells you that, and you have to learn that as you go there.

J: Okay, in the future there will be an interactive map just to locate yourself within the campus. What functions would be more useful to you?

N: I think a super useful function for me would be to be able to know where the building I want to go is, to give me the route to go and to tell me the specific time, since I learned that here we have 10 minutes between classes. So we have to move quickly in those 10 minutes and the one we have on the other side of the university or wherever that class is, we have to arrive in the middle, in that 10 minute interval. So that would help me a lot, to know where the route is and the time it takes me.

J: Okay, I understand. Would you like this map to also suggest nearby places, taking into account the current location from the university and the time of day?

N: Yes, something that would be very useful would be, for example, that at noon they would tell me, they would recommend places to eat, places where I can get my own food, buy food or get my own food so that I can have lunch quietly. Because one of the problems, as I told you at the beginning, is finding a quiet place to eat or study. So, for example, specifically at noon, it would be a good option for the app to recommend a place to eat.

J: Okay, okay. How important is it for you to know the best route, considering the time, accessibility and shortcuts?

N: Very important. As I had my first experience, I arrived late to my second class, as I had told you. And learning that we only have 10 minutes between classes, it is very important to know the time it will take me, the route I have to take. And if there is a shortcut, it would be much better, because the time runs and we have to get there to class, whatever it takes. So it would be very, very, very useful to have the exact route and the exact time it will take us.

J: Okay, okay, noted. On what device or platform would you use this interactive map more?

N: On the device I use the most, which is the cell phone. On the cell phone I am all the time and there I look for everything I need to know. You take the computer and the iPad to class, but the cell phone is something where you do whatever you want and you have it at hand, on the cell phone mainly.

J: Okay, How would you prefer the information of this application to be shown within this map?

N: I would like to have a search engine where I can look for the destination I want to reach and there I get the route and the time directly. However, I would also like it to recommend places near me, that is, without the need for me to look for anything in the interface, it recommends places. Like, for example, to eat or quiet places and that kind of thing.

J: Okay. And finally, is there anything else you want to share about your experience of orienting yourself on campus?

N: At the moment nothing occurs.

J: Okay, Perfect. So that would be all. Thank you very much for your time and for sharing your experience. Those answers that you give us will help us a lot to better understand all these difficulties that students have and think about possible solutions. If later on we develop a proposal, would you be interested in sharing the result?

N: Of course, of course. The truth is that if they design something like they have the idea of something where it gives you the route, it gives you the time, it would be very useful for new students like me at least. That we do not know the university at first and we have to learn the hard way without anyone guiding us because no one tells you where all the buildings are, how to get there, there are shortcuts, that maybe you discover it over time. But it would be very useful if from the beginning you already have all that.

J: Okay, Perfect. So that would be all. Thank you very much for your time.
